# spotify-group-jam

Introducing Spotify Group Jam, an interactive platform built with Django and React that enables collaborative music listening. Users can join group listening sessions, with the host having full control over the music.

## Demo

While it's challenging to demonstrate the application fully, here's a glimpse of the website from the host's perspective. The host has the ability to pause/play, skip, search for, queue, and play other songs for the group:

https://github.com/johnflanagan827/spotify-group-jam/assets/69359897/f7338f9d-320d-4772-ba47-8946be5fc438

## Setup

Get Spotify Group Jam up and running by following these steps:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine:

```
git clone https://github.com/johnflanagan827/spotify-group-jam.git
```

2. Create a virtual environment using venv (optional):

```
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # on Windows, use: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install the required Python packages:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Django Secret Key Configuration:

To generate a SECRET_KEY, run the following command in your terminal:

```
openssl rand -base64 32
```

Copy the output of the above command and modify `music_controller/settings.py` as follows:

```python
SECRET_KEY = 'YOUR_SECRET_KEY'
```

Replace `YOUR_SECRET_KEY` with the output generated by the openssl command.

## Spotify Api Configuration

To use Spotify Group Jam, you need to configure your Spotify application with a client ID and client secret. Follow the steps below to obtain these credentials:

1. Go to the [Spotify Developer Dashboard](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard) and log in with your Spotify account. If you don't have one, create a Spotify Account.

2. Click "Create App". Fill out the information as follows:

- ***App Name:*** You can name the app as you please. Consider using "Spotify Group Jam" to identify it easily.
- ***App Description:*** Feel free to add any description to help you remember the purpose of the app.
- ***Website:*** This field can be ignored.
- ***Redirect URI:*** Add http://127.0.0.1:8000/spotify/redirect as the Redirect URI.

3. Click "Save." Now, navigate to the "Settings" section in the top right corner of the dashboard. In this page, you will find your unique **Client ID** and **Client Secret**

4. In your project's `music_controller/spotify` directory, create a `.env` file with the following content:

```
CLIENT_ID=YOUR_SPOTIFY_ID
CLIENT_SECRET=YOUR_SPOTIFY_SECRET
REDIRECT_URI=http://127.0.0.1:8000/spotify/redirect
```

Replace `YOUR_SPOTIFY_ID` and `YOUR_SPOTIFY_SECRET` with the Spotify Client ID and Secret you just generated.


## Running the Server

Once the setup and configuration are complete, you can now run the server. Navigate to the `music_controller` directory and execute:

```
./manage.py runserver
```

The application will be accessible at `http://127.0.0.1:8000`.

To make the application accessible to anyone on the same Wi-Fi network, use the following command instead:

```
./manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000
```

This allows other devices on the same Wi-Fi network to access the application through your machine's IP address and port `8000`.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. Feel free to use, modify, and distribute the code as you see fit. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.
